---
date: 2023-12-20 12:26:40
layout: post
title: BTC Algorithmic Trading 
subtitle: 
description: 
image: /assets/img/growth-stock-chart.jpg
optimized_image: /assets/img/growth-stock-chart.jpg
category: Market Microstructure and Algorithmic Trading
tags:
  - Stock
  - Finance
author: Rachael
---

<h2 class="toc_title">Introduction</h2>

This project provides a comprehensive API trading system through test.net Binance gateway, which include functionalities such as order book management, data recording, model training, real-time trading, and retrieval of trade history records. Regarding model training, the system employs various statistical methods and regression models for financial data analysis and the development of trading strategies. 

To begin with, statistical methods like thresholding techniques are utilized to identify and filter outliers in the dataset to reduce noise. 

Subsequently, for model training, the system selects linear regression and LASSO regression models. During the training process, these models use historical financial data to calculate trading signals, such as those based on predefined periods and thresholds, to generate trading signals. After model training, the system conducts simulated trading to evaluate the performance of developed trading strategies. During simulated trading, the system executes trades based on signals generated by the models and tracks the profitability of the trades, providing insights into strategy effectiveness in a controlled environment. 



<h3 class="toc_title"> Gateway Setting Up</h3>

In the trading strategy, the process begins by periodically retrieving depth messages from the exchange's API. These messages provide a snapshot of the market's liquidity, detailing the existing buy and sell limit orders with their respective prices and quantities.

Once the depth messages are received, they are decoded using a specialized parsing function. This function is adept at handling JSON-formatted messages, extracting and transforming the data into a more manageable format. During this parsing stage, the prices and quantities for both buy and sell orders are separated and structured into Tier objects. Each Tier object represents a specific price level in the order book, encapsulating the price and the quantity available at that level.

Following the parsing, an OrderBook object is constructed. This object integrates all the parsed data, encapsulating the entirety of the depth message's content, including arrays of Tier objects for both bids and asks, and the message's timestamp. This structuring allows for efficient access and manipulation of market-depth information within the trading strategy.

The final step in handling the order book data involves extracting key information that will drive trading decisions.

The key information includes:
- Timestamp
- Mid-price: Half of the difference between the buy and sell prices
- Spread: The differences between the sell and buy prices
- Best bid and ask prices: Represents the best bid and ask prices in the current order book, i.e, the highest bid price and the lowest ask price
- Best N-tiers: In the strategy, I specifically extended the Class OrderBook tp capture 10 best tiers of bids and asks.
- Converting the recorded data into a DataFrame: When the number of entries in the list reaches a certain threshold (batchN), the recorded data is converted into a DataFrame and saved as a CSV file.
  


<h3 class="toc_title">Modeling</h3>
<p>I begin by preprocessing the financial data to remove outliers using statistical methods such as thresholding. This step aims to enhance the quality of the dataset by eliminating erroneous or irrelevant data points.</p>

<p>For model training, I choose two regression models: linear regression and LASSO regression for its simplicity and interpretability. During the training process, the selected regression models are trained using historical financial data. The models calculate trading signals based on predefined periods and thresholds, which serve as indicators for initiating trades.</p>

<p> After model training, we conduct simulated trading to assess the performance of the developed trading strategies. Simulated trading involves executing trades based on the trading signals generated by the models and tracking the resulting profitability. This step provides insights into the effectiveness of the strategies in a controlled environment.</p>

<p> To validate the robustness of the models, we perform online testing using realtime data. During online testing, the models are applied to live market data, and their trading performance is analyzed in real-time. This step helps identify any discrepancies between simulated and actual trading outcomes and ensures the reliability of the developed strategies.</p>


